
Mon  3 Oct 10:04:42 BST 2016

	Assignment 1, 33% of module, group written paper plus presentation

	Topics and groups to be finalised by week 3

	Topic must be relevant to course, preferably an area with which we are not familiar
	Accademic paper, small scope

	Litterature survey of field expected
	Topics not limited to computer security?
	
	paper due week 15, presentations in week 16
	hard copy to FOTAC, digital copy to turnitin
	
	Marking scheme to be posted
	
	doccumenting progress not nessesary, but suggested. Blogs, journals etc.
	Gantt chart?

	NO PLAGURISM!!!1!

	questionaire expected

	1000 words per student expected 
	
	TOPIC - VR:
		Possible applications(Gaming, medical, simulation, design etc.)
		Cost effectiveness per application
		General opinion questionaire 		



Tue  4 Oct 12:03:02 BST 2016

	Compare between nations for any given topic?

	What is research?
		Systematic investigation into the study of a field
		Discover new facts, collate old facts
		
		Start with a question or problem to solve (Hypothesis)
			Usually involves manipulation of independant variables to bring about changes in 
			dependant variables
			Problem/Question must be specific
			vaugity leads to unfocussed work

		Answers may seem obvious, but even an obvious point is worth proving
		Problem must be submitted to rigourous scientific scrutiny, else only guesses remain
		Don't assume common sense/common knowledge
		Don't assume, period

	Negative resulults still valuable
	Specifics and details EXTREMELY important

		
	1 - Statement of problem
	2 - Literature Review
	3 - Choice of research Method
	4 - Design Study
	5 - Data Collection
	6 - Analysis of data
	7 - Write Up

	Make notes of sources. Biblography is important, details of sources are nessesary

Tue 11 Oct 12:08:26 BST 2016

	Bias is inherant to most studies; acknowledge where bias may occur and account for it in your conclusion.
	Even an inconclusive study is a valid one.

	Write abstract last, put it first

	the first thing the examiners look at is the title, abstract, then references! References are super important.
	Ensure a wide variety of credible resources as it is important for first impressions

	literiture review can be main method of chosen methodology. Subhead different sections to improve clarity
	when large amounts of litterature are being referenced

	Review articles/Meta analysis are very useful, look out for them

	example annoteded research paper availible on blackboard


Mon 24 Oct 10:35:07 BST 2016
	
	VR Notes:
		Historical
			http://www.vrs.org.uk/virtual-reality/history.html
				1838 - Stereoscopic Photos/Viewers
				1929 - First Flight Sim
					Link Trainer
					Edward link
					entirely electromechanical
					used during WWII by 500000 pilots
				1930s - VR Predicted in SciFi
					Pygmalion's Spectacles - Stanley G. Weinbaum
				1950s - Morton Heilig's Sensorama
				1960 - First head mounted display - Teleshpere Mask
				1965 - Ivan Sutherland describes "The Ultimate Display"
					HMD used to achieve maximum immersion
					computer hardware used to maintain virtual world
					ability to interact with virtual objects in a realistic manner
				1968 - Sword of Damocles - First HMD connected to a computer rather than a camera
					Suspended from the cieling
					primitive wireframe graphics
				1969 - Myron Kruegere's Artificial Reality
				1987 - 'Virtual Reality' coined as a term
					Jaron Lanier founded the Visual Programming Lab (VPL)
					Developed dataglove along with Tom Zimmerman
					Developed the EyePhone HMD
					First production vr goggles (EyePhone 1, $9400, EyePhone HRX, $49000)
					Major developments into haptics, developed gloves ($9000)
				1991 - Virtuality Group Arcade machines
					large arcade machines allowed first real public access to VR
					realtime CG Visuals (Less than 50ms latency)
					Networked multi-player
				1992 - The Lawnmower Man movie
					wide audiance introduced to the concept of VR
					drew inspiration from VPL and Jaron Lanier
				1993 - SEGA VR Headset announced

Tue 25 Oct 12:13:11 BST 2016

	ontology
		realism vs relativism
			[look this up]
	
	Epistemology
		Positivism or Realism
			observer independent
			explaining
			empirical

			Quantitative
			Objective 
			Questions
				what? when? how much?
			deductive
			[fact based]

		Interperativism or Constructionism
			observer dependednt
			understanding
			hermeneutic
				interperating texts and comunications [neat!]

			Subjective
			Qualitative
			Questions
				Why? How?
			Discover meaning
			context, social element
			inductive
			[people rather than facts]

		Pragmatism
			balanced approach
			results focussed
			questions
				who? what? when? where? why? how?
			deductive and inductive


	The scientific method
		Question > Research > Hypothesis > Experiment > Analysis > Results

	Quantitative
		Questionairs, experiments
		numbers, unbiased facts, totally objective 
		deductive ( General > specific, top down)
			Using large sampes of general facts to make specific conclusions
	Inductive
		Interviews, narrative, observations, ethnography [?]
		open ended questions, subjective
		can be biased [!]
		inductive (Specific > general, bottom up)
			generalising from specific instances
	
	methods
		feasability study (is it possible?)

		comparitative study (is it better?)

		observational study (what is it?)
			Study system use/performance
			User testing, AB testing, UX feedback
			usability, accessability

		literature survey (what is known about it?)
			[lots of reading!]

		formal method (abstration)
			logic, math, algorithms, complexity, proofs
			Specification, verification
			model checking, theorem proving

		simulation (what if?)
			real world phenomenon > abstract computer simulations
			constants, variables, rules, probabilities
				weather prediction, flocking
		
		Experimentation/implementation
			testing for correctness
			evaluating any given system
			parameters, input > process > output (IPO)
			prototyping

	
Tue 15 Nov 12:08:21 GMT 2016

	Analysing Data
		How many results?
		Where from?
		How did you get them? (Digital, paper etc.
		When did you get them?
		
		These things need describing as part of the methodology section of the paper
		Create a spreadsheet/table of results


Tue 17 Jan 12:04:08 GMT 2017

	What is Modelling?
		A model is a simplified sepresentation or description of a system or complex entity, especially one
		designed to facilitate calculations and predictions

		Comceptual Model - a high level representtion of the system composed of concepts (entities) and 
		relationships between them

		Logical model - a lower level, more detailed representation of the system

		Physical Model - the lowest level representation of the system. Contains implementation information


	Entity Diagrams
				

Thu Jan 19 17:03:44 GMT 2017

    c
    git keeps a record of changes to files so as to avoid storing the entire file (such as in svn)
    git creates sha1 hashes for every commit
    commits can be refered to by these handles
    often a shorter version is used, showing only the first 7 chars of the handle
    any corruption of the local repo can be shown by discrepencies in the sha1 hash

    svn will push the entire file each time. Using git saves bandwidth




    |Working Directory|   -> |Staging area|    ->  |git directory|
             -->    stage files   -->      commit      -->

              <------------ Checkout the project----------




     |untracked|       |unmodified|      |modified|       |staged|
        ->    add the file -> edit the file -> stage the file

        <--remove the file--    <---------commit-------------





    create and fill a repo

        cd into dir
        type git init
            creates the repo (a .git dir)
            you seldom neet to look in .git
        git add.
            period means this dir
            adds all diles in the dir to the repo
        git commit -m "Initial Commit"
            make sure commit messages are meaningful and informative    [implying]


    Clone a repo from elsewhere
        git clone [url]
        git clone [url] [mypath]
            these make an exact copy of the repo from the given URL
        git clone git://github.com/user/repo.git

    
    The repository
        Your top-level working directory contains everything about your project
            the working dir probably contains many subdirs 
            one of these, .git, is the repo


    Working with your own repo
        a head is a reference to a commit object
        the current head is called HEAD (all caps)

    git revert HEAD~3
        revert the changes specified in the 4th last git commit
    git revert [hash]
    this will restore the wd to the same as it was when the chosen commit was before, but the commits made since still exist


Tue Jan 24 12:22:34 GMT 2017

    Sourcing requirements
        Sampling
        Questionnaires
        Interviews
        Research
        Observation
        Workshops
        Prototyping

    Non-Functional Requirements
        Product Requirements
            Efficiency
                Performance
                Space
            Dependability
            Usability
            Security
        Organizational
            Environmental
            Operational
            Development
        External
            Regulatory
            Ethical
            Legislative
                Accounting
                Safety

    User Stories are extremely useful when determining requirements. Large user stories are known as epics
    
    validation vs verification

    verifications is doing the right thing, validation is doing it the right way

    Requirements evolution
        Initial understanding of the problem
        initial requiremts
        requirements walkthrough
        changed understanding of the problem
        changed requirements
        requirements clarifications and organisation
        requirements prioritisation and negotiation
        requirements specification
        sign-off



Tue Jan 31 12:04:20 GMT 2017

    Nature of Projects - Why are projects difficult to manage?

        Outcomes are intangible, virtual
        Limits of time, budget and scope
        Various skill levels between team members
        May be large/complex projects with many componants involving a variety of resources
        Responsabilities are spread throughout team members


    Planning
        
        Understand the goal and how to achieve it
        Identify activities/tasks
            List all activities and tasks to be carried out
            Create work breakdown structure
            Estimate how long each activity will take
            Indicate dependenceies which activities/tasks must be completed before others can be started
        Allocated activities to team personnel
        Adjust the plan as necessary


    Planning Goals
        
        Ensure approptiate resources will be ready when required;
        Avoid different activities competeing for resources
        Produce detailed schedule showing which staff carry out which activity
        Produce detailed plan against which achievement can be measured
        Produce timed cash flow forecast
        Re-plan during project lifetime to correct


    Traditional vs Agile

        Detailed plan completed before moving on to         incremental and flexible plan adjusted to the
        the next stage                                      current situation if required

        Different members of team contribution to           whole team contributes to the project throughout
        the project depends on the stage of the             the development lifecycle
        project

        low (or lack of) customer interaction               close cooperation with customer


    Activity and product based approaches
        
        Activity based approach
            List all activities
            Subdivide project
            Work Breakdown Structure
            Task catalogue
            
            An activity based approach takes the perspective of what needs to be done

        Product based approach
            Used in PRINCE2
            Product Breakdown Structure
            Product Flow Diagram
            List of Activities identified from transformations

            A product based approach takes the perspective of what needs to be delivered
    

Wed Feb  1 12:54:24 GMT 2017

    Git commands

        git diff        - shows differences between files in wd and repo
        git rm          - removes file from repo and wd
            --cached    - removes only from repo, keeps in wd



Tue Feb  7 12:09:19 GMT 2017

    Human Resource Planning
        The ongoing, continuois process of systematic planning to ensure that stagging is sufficient, qualified,
        and competent enough to achieve the organisations objectives. The process goal is to avoid manpower
        shortages or surpluses and ensure the best fit employee to the task

    Team structures
        In a traditional development team, a project manager oversees individuals or small teams who work on 
        different parts of a project independently. In agile, the team is more cohesive, with all members working
        in tandem at all times on the project as it progresses

    Employee expertise
        It is important that the right person is working on the right job. Skills need to be well defined so that
        the right employee can be assigned to the task. Soft skills are also important in almost every role
        (interpersonal skills, team working, time management etc.) Leadership skills are also important in certain
        roles; not everyone is suited to this type of work so finding the right employee is important.

        More difficult to quantify is how an employee fits into a team as a person. Face to face interviews and
        informal chats are vital in this aspect. It's difficult to get work done if your team doesnt WANT to work
        together

    Attracting relevant candidates: Recruitment
        Personal recomendations are important. If somebody knows someone personally who they believe is a good 
        candidate, they are often more likely to be a good fit as they may have existing rapore with the team.
        As such recuruiting for a team from within the organisation is usually the first port of call. From there
        it is important to advertise and recruit from the right talent pools. Relevant university courses are a
        good start, and carreer fairs and agencies can be useful to find enthusiastic prospects.

    Develop Employees: Training
        Regular assesment is vital to ensure that each individuals performance, strengths and weaknesses are known
        quantities. This way it is easier to identify areas where further development is needed, and training can
        be tailored to ensure they are a good fit for the organisation. Review employees 1-2 times per year as a 
        rule of thumb.

    Employee Retention
        Employees should have opertunities for progression in as many aspects of their carreer as possible. Those
        who desire further responsibilities should be given the oportunity to prove themselves, and all should have
        a clear roadmap for paygrade and carreer progression. This way you do not lose valuable employees to 
        outside competition. In this sense carreer flexability is important to allow team members to find the role
        most suited to them, giving them the fullest satisfaction from their work.

        Include oportunities for talented individuals to further specilise or expand their roles to provide
        greater job satisfaction. Keep individual needs in mind, work life balance is important to ensure your team
        members are as productive as possible when you need them to be

        [Maslow (1954)]

        Perhaps most important is the need for fairness and percieved equality of opertunity. Provide meaningful
        leadership and mentoring, and get to know employees personally. Having a positive work environment does
        wonders for productivity.

        "Treating people right is the fundamental key to creating organisational effectiveness [...] Both
        organisations and individuals need to succeed. One cannot succeed without the other" - Lawler, 2003

    Organising work
        Ensure goals and expectations are simple, clear and well defined. Group tasks together in a way that makes 
        sense, and ensure that everyone knows where their role fits into the wider picture. Ensure that 
        individuals/teams do not get isolated; co-operation is vital. Whilst a clear well defined plan is 
        essential, it needs to be felxible enough to accomadate unexpected changes and the needs of the team
        members.

    Leadership
        The most important resource as a leader is motivation, both your own and that of your team. In this vein it
        is important to keep goals realistic and acchievable, otherwise people get disheartened when faced with a 
        seamingly insurmountable task. Make sure to reward those who do well and work with those who are falling
        behind to bring them back up to speed.

        Be aware of leadership style. The best style can vary wildly depending on setting, task, and team members.

        Ensure there is a clear chain of command and reporting structure
